Wasteland
=========

INTRO
-----

The end has come and gone.  After a century of infinite growth, everything has come full circle.

There is no food. There is no power. The few people who are left squabble over scraps.  

A small group of survivors have banded together and formed a settlement.

Things were going as well as could be expected until the survivors encountered a panicked man from another settlement. 

The man's small settlement had been destroyed by a band of marauders, hundreds strong. And they were headed this way. 

The survivors weren't going anywhere.  They had made a home here. They were going to stand and fight.  

They needed to build a fortress. They had 1 week. 

SUPPLY
-----

Emplacement Deck ( Represending locations that your Survivors must capture and defend )
Survivor Deck ( Representing your Survivors ) 
Common Salvage Deck ( Representing useful items your Survivors will accumulate )
Rare Salvage Deck ( Represing very useful items your Survivors will accumulate ) 
Crisis Deck ( Representing awful things that happen while you explore Locations ) 
Catastrophe Deck ( Representing awful things that happen at night. ) 
Mutation Deck ( Representing awful things that happen when you are too irradiated )

Survivor Tokens
First Player Trophy
4 Colours of Dice

WIN/LOSE
--------

This is a limited co-operative game.  Players win by staying alive to the end.

All players lose if no Survivors remain alive, or if every Emplacement in the Settlement is damaged. 

GAME START
----------

- The last person to have killed a person with his bare hands gets the First Player's Trophy.
    - In the (admittedly likely) case of a tie, choose the first player with a die roll. 

- All players receive a choice of two Survivor Cards. 
    - The Survivor Card is placed in front of the player. 

- All players recieve 2 Common Salvage Cards. 
    - The Common Salvage Cards compose the player's hand. 

- Put the Starting Emplacements in play, in the center of the table. 

- Create a deck-sized hole next to the Quatermaster Emplacement. This is the "Stockpile". Put 5 Common Salvage in the Stockpile.  

- Place the Week track. 

- Put 1 Catastrophe on every Day in the track, except for Sunday Night. 

- Put 1 Super-Catastrophe on Sunday Night. 

- Flip Monday's Catastrophe and Emplacement cards, and Sunday's Super Catastrophe, 

DAY
---

- A game day consists of phases: 

1. EMPLACEMENT
2. EXPLORATION
3. CATASTROPHE
4. HUNGER
5. STOCKPILE

### EMPLACEMENT ###
- The Round begins.
- Each player, starting from the First player, chooses and resolves an Emplacement. 
- An Emplacement cannot be resolved twice in the same turn. 

### EXPLORATION ###
- If a player has chosen to be the Exploration Leader, he draws 2 cards from the top of the Emplacement Deck, chooses one, and adds it to the settlement.
    - Discard the other settlement.
- If there is no Exploration Leader, draw the top Emplacement and add it to the the settlement. 

- If a player has chosen to be the Exploration Leader, he draws one Crisis card for each player, then deals them out, one per player, in the order that he chooses. 
- If there is no Exploration Leader, draw a Crisis card from the top of the deck for each player, starting with the first player. 

#### COMBAT ####
- Crisis - Combat cards are events where your character has to fight to proceed. 
- A Combat card will have a Difficulty rating.
- First the player will choose any weapons that he will use in the combat. The player is now committed to use all of these weapons, regardless of outcome.
- The player now rolls a die and adds any weapon modifiers to that die. ( Jeff rolls a 2+4, and now has 6 )
- If the number is greater than or equal to the Combat's difficulty, the player wins! 
- Roll to keep weapons used in combat. 
- Weapons played in combat are 'used' for the rest of the turn. They return to the player's hand at the end of the Stockpile phase. 
- In a successful combat, roll a salvage die and place it on top of the combat card. Keep this card and die as a trophy.  

### CATASTROPHE ###
- Resolve the current day's catastrophe.

### HUNGER ###
- Each player, starting from the first player, gets one opportunity to play food cards. 
- At the end of the round, each player must have produced 1 Food for his survivor. 
- If a player produces more food than his survivors can eat, he can choose which player gets the surplus.
- Any food generated by a card that is not consumed by the end of the turn is discarded. 

### STOCKPILE ###
- Each player makes a Salvage roll, and adds the result to the Stockpile. 
    - If the player has any rolled Salvage die, as trophies, that would benefit the current roll, they may add them to the roll. 
- Each player has a hand-limit of 7 cards, including Mutations and Injury cards. If this hand limit is exceeded, the extra Salvage goes to the Stockpile.

ROLLS
-----
- When you get a die of any color, make a roll.

- On a single Salvage Die, gain a Common Salvage
- On a pair of Radiation Dice, gain a Mutation
- On a pair of Trauma Dice, discard a Salvage at random.
- On a pair of Injury Dice, gain a Trauma die  
- On a pair of Salvage Dice, gain a Rare Salvage
- On a three-of-a-kind of any color, gain another die of that color without triggering a re-roll. 
- On a four-of-a-kind of Radiation, Trauma, or Injury, you die. 
- On a four-of-a-kind or better of Salvage Dice, you gain 1 Rare Salvage and re-roll. 

- If you get two pairs on a roll, you get the penalty (or reward) twice. 

DEATH
-----
- Should a Survivor die, that Survivor's Salvage cards are placed in the Stockpile. 
- The Survivor's dice are discarded. 
- The dead survivor chooses an emplacement to damage. 

TRASH, STOCKPILE, or PLAY
-------------------------
Cards that are Trashed are placed in a pile next to their respective decks, to be shuffled back in as necessary. 
Cards that are Stockpiled are placed in the Stockpile. 
Cards that are Played are placed in front of the player, and cannot be used again this turn. 

SHARED COMBAT
-------------
- Same as a normal combat, but every player contributes die and weapon towards the roll. 

END OF GAME
-----------
- At the end of the game, the players make a Trauma roll and Radiation roll as usual, but die on a 3-of-a-kind.
- At the end of the game, if the players have Crisis and Mutation cards equal to their hand limit, they die. 
