Wasteland
=========

INTRO
-----

The end has come and gone.  After a century of infinite growth, everything has come full circle.

There is little food. There is no power. The few people who are left squabble over scraps.  

A small group of survivors have banded together and formed a settlement.

Things were going as well as could be expected until the survivors encountered a panicked man from another settlement. 

The man's small settlement had been destroyed by a band of marauders, hundreds strong. And they were headed this way. 

The survivors weren't going anywhere.  They had made a home here. They were going to stand and fight.  

They needed to build a fortress. They had a week. 

SUPPLY
-----

- Location Deck ( Locations that your Survivors must capture and defend )
- Survivor Deck ( Your Survivors ) 
- Common Salvage Deck ( Useful items your Survivors will accumulate )
- Rare Salvage Deck ( Very useful items your Survivors will accumulate ) 
- Crisis Deck ( Bad things that happen while you explore. ) 
- Catastrophe Deck ( Awful things that happen at night. ) 
- Mutation Deck ( Things that happen when you are exposed to too much radiation. )
- Survivor Tokens
- First Player Trophy
- 4 Colours of Dice

WIN/LOSE
--------

This is a limited co-operative game.  Players win by staying alive for 7 days. 

All players lose if no Survivors remain alive, or if every Location in the Settlement is destroyed. 

GAME START
----------

- The last person to have killed a person with his bare hands gets the First Player's Trophy.
    - In the (admittedly likely) case of a tie, choose the first player with a die roll. 
- All players receive a choice of two Survivor Cards. 
    - The Survivor Card is placed in front of the player. 
- All players recieve 2 Common Salvage Cards. 
    - The Common Salvage Cards compose the player's hand. 
- Put the Starting Locations in play, in the center of the table. 
- Leave a space next to the Stockpile Emplacement. This is the "Stockpile". Put 3 Common Salvage in the Stockpile.  
- Place the Week track. 
- Put 1 Catastrophe on every Day in the track, except for Sunday Night. 
- Put 1 Super-Catastrophe on Sunday Night, face up.


DAY
---

- A game day consists of phases: 

1. SETTLEMENT
2. EXPLORATION
3. CATASTROPHE
4. HUNGER
5. STOCKPILE

### SETTLEMENT ###
- The Round begins.
- Reveal today's Catastrophe card. Read it aloud.
- Each player, starting from the First player, chooses and resolves a Location. 
- A Settlement cannot be resolved twice in the same turn. 

### EXPLORATION ###
- If a player has chosen to be the Exploration Leader, he draws 3 cards from the top of the Location Deck, chooses one, and adds it to the settlement.
    - Discard the other Location cards.
- If there is no Exploration Leader, draw the top Location and adds it to the the settlement. 
- If a player has chosen to be the Exploration Leader, he draws one Crisis card for each player, then deals them out, one per player, in the order that he chooses. 
- If there is no Exploration Leader, draw a Crisis card from the top of the deck for each player, starting with the first player. 
- All players make an Exploration Salvage roll:
    - Each player may only generate 1 Common Salvage.
    - On a pair, 1 Rare Salvage is added to the Stockpile. That player receives an additional Crisis.
    - On a three-of-a-kind, gain another Salvage die -or- add a Rare Salvage to the Stockpile. An additional Catastrophe is added to that day.

#### COMBAT ####
- Crisis - Combat cards are events where your character has to fight to proceed. 
- A Combat card will have a Difficulty rating.
- First the player will choose any weapons that he will use in the combat. The player is now committed to use all of these weapons, regardless of outcome.
- The player now rolls a die and adds any weapon modifiers to that die.
- If the number is greater than or equal to the Combat's difficulty, the player wins! 
- Also, the die roll is used to determine the condition of some weapons.
- Weapons played in combat are 'used' for the rest of the turn. They return to the player's hand in the Stockpile phase. 

### CATASTROPHE ###
- Resolve the current day's catastrophe.

### HUNGER ###
- Each player, starting from the first player, gets one opportunity to play food cards. 
- At the end of the round, each Survivor must have consumed 1 Food. 
- If a player produces more food than his Survivor can eat, he can choose which player gets the surplus.
- Any food generated by a card that is not consumed by the end of the turn is discarded. 

### STOCKPILE ###
- Players may trade cards _only_ during the Stockpile phase. 
- Each player has a hand-limit of 7 cards, including Mutations. If this hand limit is exceeded, the extra Salvage goes to the Stockpile.
- The First Player Trophy passes to the left of the First Player. 

ROLLS
-----
- When you get a die of any color, make a roll.

- On a single Salvage Die, gain a Common Salvage
- On a pair of Radiation Dice, gain a Mutation
- On a pair of Trauma Dice, discard a Salvage at random.
- On a pair of Injury Dice, gain a Trauma die  
- On a pair of Salvage Dice, gain a Rare Salvage
- On a three-of-a-kind of any color, gain another die of that color without triggering a re-roll. On Salvage Dice, the player may elect to take a Rare Salvage instead.
- On a four-of-a-kind of Radiation, Trauma, or Injury, you die. 
- On a four-of-a-kind or better of Salvage Dice, you gain 1 Rare Salvage and re-roll. 

- If you get two pairs on a roll, you get the penalty (or reward) twice. 

DEATH
-----
- Should a Survivor die, that Survivor's Salvage cards are placed in the Stockpile. 
- The Survivor's dice are discarded. 
- The dead survivor chooses a Location to damage. 

TRASH, STOCKPILE, or PLAY
-------------------------
Cards that are Trashed are placed in a pile next to their respective decks, to be shuffled back in as necessary. 
Cards that are Stockpiled are placed in the Stockpile. 
Cards that are Played are placed in front of the player, and cannot be used again this turn. 

SHARED COMBAT
-------------
- Same as a normal combat, but every player contributes die and weapon towards the roll. 
- All players choose the weapons and mutations that they will use, and place them in front of themselves, face down.
- All players flip their weapons simultaneously.
- Every player rolls. The total of all player rolls and all weapons must meet or exceed the Shared Combat's difficulty to pass. 

LOCATIONS
---------
Locations may be damaged during play.

- Starting locations are considered permanent and are rendered unusable for one turn. If the Stockpile is damaged, all Salvage within is Trashed and no new Salvage may be placed for one full day. 
- Locations added during play are considered temporary and are removed from play when damaged.
